Static Storage Structures
- One declared they are fixed in size. The size may be a variable.
One problem is that once the array is filled there is no more room. 
One solution is to create an array that is bigger,copy all the elements and add the new item into that bigger temp array.

myArray = tempArray
myArray is size 5 and temp array is size 6
myarray is unassociated memory. What is unassociated memory?Garbage collection runs in the background all the time to get rid of garbage?

```java
tempArray = new String [8];
for(int i= 0; i < size; i++)
  tempArray[i] = myArray[i]
cont in slides
```

Another problem is adding items to an ordered(Sorted) array.
eg adding cat in between bat and fat.
You can move words down one cell to get a space and to keep the array sorted. It's a prblem because something continuous memory. 

```java
for(int i= 0)
  myArray[i+1] = myArray[i];
tempArray[n+1] = "cat";
```

A solution is **Dynamic** Structure
A dynamic structure use only as much memory as they need.Use storage on an as needed basis.
Dyanic structure rely on themselve to determins the orde rof the data ites they contain.
Cont in slides.

An Abstract dynamic structure:
Linked List

Create a real class for a "node" in the list
The node contains "bat" has 2 components
- The actual data if the node
- the info for the next node

```java
class ListNode
    String data;
    ListNode next;
        public ListNode(String d, ListNode ln){
        data = d;
        next = ln;
    }// constructor
} class ListNode
```
For the list structure we need 2 more things.The computer needs to know which one is the first and last node of the list. 
FirstNode tells me the next node is cat and cat tell me the next is bat etc. We need something at the bottom called nul.
FirstNode variable.

```java
public class LinkedList{
    private ListNode first;
    private ListNode last;
    private int length;
}
```

to know how many nodes are in the linked list you have to count them.
The timing would be O(n) if you used a loop to count them.
You can make it O(c) if you have a variable and keep track of it whiel you add or remove nodes. You can simply return that variable.

reference to first node and last node to make appending easy and a third to make getting num of nodes easy

```java
public void append(String s){
    ListNode n = new ListNode(s);
    last.next = n;
    last = n;
    length++;
}
```
This is how append works. In original last node is rat. Last.next is refering to null. To append make last.next point to n which is 'sat' ro rat points to sat. then make last = n 'sat'. So now sat points to null. 

he doesnt like the solution on the slide with error in a box. 

Another way to do it is with a dummy node/head node. This node will not count. It does not have any data in it. It helps to always have a dummy head node.

The short append method can now add new nodes to the empty list.