Dynamic vs Static Structures
The Advantages of Linked Lists

- Static Storage Structures like arrays
- A solution to above is creating a larger array and move stuff over
- It would be an O(n) problem 
- Another problem is adding an item to a sorted array.

- A solution is dynamic structures like the linked list

Creating a node. Node has two parts: data and refernce
Including a dummy head node would fix an error

Traversing the list
The printlist uses a pointer. At the beginning p is first.next and not first because there is nothing in the dummy node. first.next points to cat. P is refering to cat. Move p over to the next node. P now points to rat. Keep moving p over untill when it is null the loop stops. 

Searching the list
Method called find. Has a string and checks if list has string.
Start at beginning of list. Keep moving p over until you find what you are looking for. While p isnt null and p's data isnt equal to the string then keep moving p to the next. 

Why give a pointer to a node in the list to the caller?
If you give a reference to a node mistakes could happen like losing a pointer to another node. Make the list smaller.
You can provide access to the linked list using *methods*.
``` java
ln = new LinkedList();
ln.append(String s);
ln.printList();
```

It problematic if you let user have references to the linked list. 

You can use an **iterator**. It stands between the user and the structure.

Removing a node from the list. When you change pointer to another node eg bat to rat. Car becomes unassociated memory. Garbage collection sweeps up cat. 
If q.next = p 
If q.next != p then move q. This is not desirable bc there is a while loop and O(n). 

A solution to deleting is using a doubly linked list. With one statement you can change.

The trick
When you delete cat you want rat to follow bat. You can delete cat and replace with rat. And then delete rat.  attach the rat node to the not after rat

bat[] cat[] rat[]
bat[] rat[] 