## Inheritance Polymorphism and Abstract Classes

Consider a student management system. Come up with a student heriracy for them. 
Extends c;asses based on the "is a" relationshop

> SSNGUI is a Jframe so SSNGUI extends Jframe
> QC Student is a CUNY student

Cuny Student -> QueensStudent 
                 |       |
                 |       v
                 v      QueensGraduate
                 QueensUndergraduate

The cuny and queens student have fields


```java
public class CUNYStudent {
    //fields
    private gpa
}

public class QueemsStudent extends CUNYStudent {
    // fields
}

public class QueensUndergraduate extends QueensStudent{
    // needs to use gpa
}

public class QieensUndergraduate extends QueensStudent{
    // needs to use gpa
}

```

if superclass has a private field but sub classes need that privatae class then a solution could be using the **protected** modifier.

The proyecyed modifier grants access only from descendant classes.
Public grants access from any class.
Private grants access only to instances of the same class.

Constructors
When a class is instantiated the first thing it must do is "construct" its super class.
Calling one of the constructors of the super class is done using the method

> super(<optional parameters>)

**You have to do this and it has to be the first thing you do in your constructor**

```java
public class CUNYStudent {
    //fields
    public CUNYStudent(String theCampus){
        campus = theCampus;
    }

    public CUNYStudent(String theCampus, String sem){
        semester = sem;
        campus = theCampus;
    }
}
```

```java
public class QueensStudent extends CUNYStudent{
    //fields

    //constructors
    public QueensStudent(){
        super("Queens);
    }

    public QueensStudent(String a, string b){
        super("Queens");
        sem = a;
        major = b;
    }
}
```

every class should call the super class.

homogenous 

What the hell is polymorphism and why is it important in OOP. As long there is some heiarchy you can do something with polymorphism. 

Abstract classes

When a class exists and has properties and methods but you dont want anyone to instantiate it. You dont want anyone to new "new" to instantiate it. 

A class is abstract if you declare it as abstract

eg if you ask someone to go find a cuny student. you dont know which school to search. if you ask someone to find a queens student you dont know which one. Those are abstract classes.

The instanceof Operator


#### Summary
- heirarchy
- super classes
- protected modifier
- super constructor
- polymorphism
- abstract classes
- instanceOf operator

