# Eight Queen Problem

Uniform initialization

Scope is where something is inside of a block of code. Like i inside of a for loop.

If you have no idea how to make the declaration, the compiler figures it out. You can use it when you have alot of code
```c++
int a[]{1,2,3,4,5};

for(auto i:a) 
  cout << i << endl;

```

To change the value in an array we need to declare i as a reference.




## Dumb method
The dumb method works by using 8 for loops and looping through every number like an odometer. The for loop sets every index of the array as the number i as it increases. 

Then the ok function tests the array.  
If it's true, then print the sequence by using a single for loop  
Print the 8x8 board by using 2 for loops.  

The ok function uses 2 for loops. The outer for loop goes through the array from the right to left (end to front).

The inner for loop goes through the numbers 0 to whatever index the outer array is at.

There is an if statement that checks if   
q[i] == q[c] if there is any conflicts in the row  
or  
(c - i) == abs(q[c] - q[i]) if there is any adjacent/diagonal conflicts

**ok function**\
```c++
bool ok(int q[]){
  for(int c = 7; c > 0; c--){
    for(int i = 0; i < c; i++){
      if(q[i] == q[c] or (c - i) == abs(q[c] - q[i])) return false;
    }    
  }
  return true;
}
```


## Goto and Backtracking, 2d array
Create the 2d array for the chessboard  
Begin by placing the Queen at the upper left most position q[0][0]  

**goto statement new col:**  
move to the next column  
if the column reaches 8 then print the board  
make row start at -1

**goto statement new row:**  
more to next row (which will start at 0 at the beginning)  
if row reaches 8 then backtrack because that means the queen couldn't reach a suitable position.

row test (if true then goto new row)  
```c++
for(int i = 0; i < c; i++){
  if(q[r][i] == 1) goto nr;
}
```
up diagonal test (if true then goto new row)  
```c++
for(int i = 1; (r-1) >= 0 and (c-i) >= 0; i++){
  if(q[r-i][c-i] == 1) goto nr;
}
```
down diagonal test (if true then goto new row)  
```c++
for(int i = 1; (r+i) < 8 and (c-i) >= 0; i++){
  if(q[r+i][c-i] == 1) goto nr;
}
``` 

if you passed all the tests (meaning if all came false) then place a queen down in the current position.  

go to a new column  

**goto statement backtrack:**  
decrement column  
if the column is less than 0 then return 0. end the program here because there is no more solutions.  

For the previous column you have to find the position of the last queen and remove it.
make row = 0.  
Use a while loop to find where the position is.  
Then make that position of the queen = 0.  
Then goto a new row.  

**goto statement print:**  
2 for loops to print the 2d array.  
then goto backtrack to find more solutions.  


## Goto and Backtracking, 1d array

Create the 1d array for the chessboard \
count the solution \
Start the column at 0 \
Start the row (q[c]) at 0 

**goto statement new col** \
increment the col
if col reaches 8 then print the array
make the row = -1

**goto statement new row** \
increment the row \
if row reaches 8 then backtrack because that means we didnt find a solution for this col 

do a row + up diagonal + down diagonal test \
if we find a conflict then goto new row

if we found no conflicts then goto new col

```c++
// row + up diagonal + down diagonal test
for(int i = 0; i < c; i++){
  if (q[i] == q[c] or (c - i) == abs(q[c] - q[i])) goto nr;
}
goto nc;

```

**goto statement backtrack** \
decrement the col \
if col reaches -1 then return 0. End the program. \
goto new row 

**goto statement print** \
print the board by using 2 for loops \
goto backtrack 


## 2 while loop, backtracking, 1d array

**ok function**\
for loop that loops through the array up to the index (col) you're at\
if statement that tests if there is any conflicts. if there are conflicts then the if statement returns false.\
outside of the for loop then it returns true.

```c++
// Ok function that checks if the queen in column c is ok
bool ok(int q[], int c) {
  for (int i = 0; i < c; i++) {
    if (q[i] == q[c] || (c - i) == abs(q[c] - q[i])) return false;
  }
  return true;
}
```

**print function**\
print the board by using 2 for loops 
if the row = to the col then print the queen


**main function**\
Create the 1d array for the chessboard \
initialize col = 0 \
start row which is q[col] = 0 


Outer while loop that ends if col isn't >= 0 anymore. \
  if col reaches 7 then print the solution and backtrack (decrement c) \
  else go to a new col (increment col) and make row = -1 

  inner while loop that ends if c isn't >= 0 anymore \
    move to the next row by incrementing  q[col] \
    if the row reaches 8 meaning if you passed the end of the column then backtrack (decrement c) \
    else if there is no conflicts (call the ok function on your array) 
    then break out of the inner while loop and go to the outer while loop. 


    

    
